[RA1 Ch03/04] Cloud Deployment Model + Table Formats (#2964)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_arch/openstack/chapters/chapter04.rst

services (nova, neutron, cinder, glance etc.). To reduce controller node
load, network nodes are widely added to manage L3 traffic for overlay
tenant networks and interconnection with external networks. The Table 
below lists the networking service components and their placement.
Please note that while network nodes are listed in the table below,
network nodes only deal with tenant networks and not provider networks.
Also, network nodes are not required when SDN is utilised for
networking.

.. list-table:: Neutron Services Placement
   :widths: 15 30 15 20
   :header-rows: 1

* - Networking Service component
  - Description
  - Required or Optional Service
  - Placement
* - neutron server (neutron-server and neutron-*-plugin)
  - Manages user requests and exposes the Neutron APIs
  - Required
  - Controller node
* - DHCP agent (neutron-dhcp-agent)
  - Provides DHCP services to tenant networks and is responsible for maintaining DHCP configuration. For High availability, multiple DHCP agents can be assigned.
  - Optional depending upon plug-in
  - Network node (Controller node if no network node present)
* - L3 agent (neutron-l3-agent)

>   - Provides L3/NAT forwarding for external network access of servers on tenant networks and supports services such as Fire wall-as-a-service (FWaaS) and Load Bala ncer-as-a-service (LBaaS)

Author: ```suggestion
  - Provides L3/NAT forwarding for external network access of servers on tenant networks and supports services such as Firewall-as-a-service (FWaaS) and Load Balancer-as-a-service (LBaaS)
```

and Edge Cloud Centres. Table 4-5 presents examples of such deployment
choices.

.. list-table:: Distribution of OpenStack services on different nodes depending upon Control Plane Scenario
   :widths: 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10
   :header-rows: 1

* - Control Plane
  - Deployed in
  - Orchestration
  - Identity Management
  - Image Management
  - Compute
  - Network Management
  - Storage Management
* - CCP
  - Centralised DC – control nodes
  - heat-api, heat-engine, nova-placement-api
  - Identity Provider (IdP), Keystone API
  - Glance API, Glance Registry

>   - nova-compute api, nova- scheduler, nova-conductor

Reviewer: @pgoyal01 There are some extra spaces: nova- scheduler

>   - neutron -server, neutron-dhcp-agent, neutron-L2-agent, neutron-L3 -agent (optional), neutron-metadata -agent

Reviewer: extra spaces: neutron -server, neutron-L3 -agent (optional), neutron-metadata -agent

  - Cinder API, Cinder Scheduler, Cinder Volume
* - DCP: combination of services depending upon Center size
* - Any DC - Control nodes Option 1
* - heat-api, heat-engine, nova-placement-api
* - Identity Provider (IdP), Keystone API
* - Glance API, Glance Registry

> * - nova-compute api, nova- scheduler, nova-conductor

Reviewer: extra space: nova- scheduler

> * - neutron -server, neutron-dhcp-agent, neutron-L2-agent, neutron-L3-agent (optional), neutron-metadata -agent

Reviewer: extra spaces: neutron -server, neutron-metadata -agent

* - Cinder API, Cinder Scheduler, Cinder Volume
* -  
  - Any DC - Control nodes Option 2: split services between two or more DCs
  - in one of the DC
  - in the Large DC
  - in the Large DC
  - in one of the DC
  - in one of ther DC
  - in one of the DC
* - CCP or DCP
  - Compute nodes
  -  
  -  
  -  

>   - nova-compute -agent

Reviewer: extra space: nova-compute -agent

>   - neutron-L2- agent, neutron-L3-agent (optional)

Reviewer: extra space: neutron-L2- agent

  -  
* - CCP
  - Compute nodes
  - nova-placement-api
  -  
  -  
  - nova-compute-agent, nova-conductor

>   - neutron -server, neutron-dhcp-agent, neutron-L2-agent, neutron-L3-agent (optional)

Reviewer: extra space: neutron -server

resource capabilities. It should be noted that none of these changes
affect the definition of OpenStack flavors.

> The previous section listed the OpenStack services deployed on the controller nodes depepnding upon

Reviewer: Typo: depepnding

the control plane distribution. As specified earlier in this chapter, at least 3 controller nodes should be deployed 
for HA.  Compute nodes may also exist at the sites where controller nodes are deployed.  

> Control plane services are not hosted at edge sites. Each edge site can be treated as its own OpenStack AZ. The 

Reviewer 2: Just to double check. Is that clarified in RM or in this doc that the control plane services are deployed centrally to follow telecom requirements as opposed to being an OpenStack limitation?

Author: @ildikov RM doesn't deal with deployment and so this control plane distribution is only in the RA.

> compute nodes, will host `nova-compute`, a component of the the CCompute Service (Nova), and `neutron-L2-agent`,

Reviewer: typo: CCompute

Reviewer 2: I don't think there is a 'neutron-L2-agent'. There is an ML2 Plugin on the controller node, but they are using a 'Linux Bridge Agent' on the Computes, see here: https://docs.openstack.org/neutron/train/install/overview.html

a component of the Network Service (Neutron).

The Edge sites may or may not contain local storage. If the edge sites contain storage, then the Block Storage 
service (Cinder) is usually deployed to run in an active/active mode with the centrally deployed Block Storage 
service. Instance images are downloaded and stored locally; they can be downloaded even prior to use.

If the edge site doesn't contain storage then the images would need to be cached from the central site. The instance

> images would be downloaded and cached in the Nova cache on first use; they will then be available for subsequent

Reviewer 2: Nova also supports to pre-cache images, but they introduced that in the Ussuri release. Not sure if we want to reflect that here? https://docs.openstack.org/nova/latest/admin/image-caching.html#image-pre-caching

resource capabilities. It should be noted that none of these changes
affect the definition of OpenStack flavors.

The previous section listed the OpenStack services deployed on the controller
nodes depending upon the control plane distribution. As specified earlier in

> this chapter, at least 3 controller nodes should be deployed  for HA.  Compute

Reviewer 2: There are some extra white spaces in this line. Probably good to fix if there's anything else that needs a new commit in this PR.

Author: @ildikov Thanks - Fixed.

> this chapter, at least 3 controller nodes should be deployed  for HA.  Compute

Author: ```suggestion
this chapter, at least 3 controller nodes should be deployed for HA.  Compute
```
